<!--Title:Authoring Topics-->
<!--Url:authoring-->

To author new topic files, just create textual files with the `.md` extension (see <[linkto:documentation/docs/navigation]> to see how these files are organized into a navigable structure). Storyteller provides a couple levels of transformation from raw textual files to the finished html:

1. Comment directives to override a topic's title or url

1. Storyteller supports several custom preprocessing directives that follow a syntax like <code>&lt;[linkto:topic_key;title=Link to a Different Topic]&gt;</code> 

1. Markdown transformation of text to html using the [CommonMark.Net](https://github.com/Knagis/CommonMark.NET) library.

1. A limited master page template to theme the documentation and provide consistent navigation structures. See <[linkto:documentation/docs/theme]> for more information.


See these topics for more information about custom directives:
* <[linkto:documentation/docs/linking]>
* <[linkto:documentation/docs/samples]>
* <[linkto:documentation/docs/theme]>


## Topic Titles

Storyteller derives or reads a title for each topic file to use within both the `layout.htm` and any navigation structures. By default, the title is derived by just capitalizing the "key" of the topic, so the title of a file called `colors.md` would be "Colors". Likewise, the title of a topic file called `/planets/index.md` would be "Planets".

To explicitly configure the title, use an html comment at the top of the file like this:

<code>&lt;!--Title:Authoring Topics--&gt;</code>

## Topic Urls

The url for a topic is derived by adding a segment to the url of a topic's parent derived from the file name. You can override the last segment of a topic url by adding an html comment to the top of the topic file like this:

<code>&lt;!--Url:authoring--&gt;</code>

## Table of Contents for Child Topics

You can embed a table of contents in a tree format for any children topics with this directive:

<code>&lt;!--TableOfContents-&gt;</code>

Note that this html is generated by C# code and is hard-coded to use styles based on [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com).


